The planet of Armageddon has well earned
its name after millennia of being
ravaged by pollution and war. Yet, while
much of this world has been made
inhospitable to life, from this crucible
of death has been forged one of the most
formidable armies of the Imperial Guard.
Spewing forth from the manufacturums of
its hive cities come mechanized
regiments with not just the armor and
firepower to hold the line, but an
aggressive mobile doctrine to drive the
enemy back. Today we shall explore the
unique nature of their armed forces.
From the survival gear of a typical
Guardsman to their unique Armageddon
pattern vehicles,
the mechanized infantry formations,
the armored columns,
the support units,
and more.
Altogether, these forces unite with the
rare privilege [music] of operating as
truly combined arms regiments, capable
of punching well above their weight
class. This is the true size of the
Armageddon Steel [music] Legion.
So, as is pretty obvious, I love history
and I love fantasy, and I love bringing
those two together to do my very own
world building. So, for instance, for my
D and D campaign, this has meant
creating tons of maps, filling binders
with lore, and doing my best to keep the
rest of it in my head. Creating all this
has been a labor of love and a deep
passion. Uh, but unfortunately, over the
years, it means that it's gotten quite
overwhelming with the staggering amount
of content that I have. Uh, some stuff
has been outright lost or relegated to
the dust bins of my garage. Now,
thankfully, I found worldanvil.com a
couple years back, and it's been the
answer to all of my problems. They make
it really easy to upload, build,
preserve, and present your world
building. Now, apparently their team is
actually fans of this channel, and they
reached out for a sponsorship, to which
I immediately agreed because I think
it's an amazing tool. So, let me show
you why. So, here's a landing page I
created for my D and D homebrew campaign
that my players can delve into, just
like it's a wiki. For the backstory,
they can actually access the timeline,
which traces back the known history of
the realm. For the setting, they can
access my world codeex for quick links
to things like the pages for my various
kingdoms, the religions, and more. Now,
as you can see, it's a super
customizable format where I can write up
lore, provide reference images, and even
link in my own maps. Speaking of maps,
you have to check out this feature. So,
here's the starting region for my
players. It's in the Kingdom of Tus.
Now, there is a physical version
available to them, but the digital
version is just rendered that much more
powerful by the features in World Anvil.
So, for one, it's digital. You can zoom
in and scroll, really soak in all those
details. And what's really cool is as
the kind of owner of this page, I can
load up different layers to the map. So
for instance in my map, politics,
diplomacy, all that is very important.
So you can see here I turn on the
political map and now players get access
to see who rules what realm, what is
their crest and all that. An additional
feature you're seeing is you can
actually go ahead and drop pins. So I'm
using this much like an MMO where there
might be a quest for instance here. So
look, missing children. So I can make
people aware of open quests that they
have not done yet. I can mark victories.
For instance, they fought some goblins
up here. So I can mark that victory.
there might be a uh a nearby mine or
some other dungeon that they haven't
explored. You can actually literally
track the progress of players, you can
draw lines and add notes on that. So, in
this case, I was marking where they've
been at different parts in the session
so that they know when and where to
backtrack. Uh, and in addition to that,
as players collect stuff that's
valuable, uh, like maps, I can actually
embed those notes. So, for instance,
here as they explored the edges of this
kind of known world here, they got a
scouts map and they can access the
details for what lays beyond. Speaking
of that, you can actually link your
different maps together. So, let's say,
for instance, the players went all the
way here to the capital of Cotor. Well,
actually, if you want to get that map,
you can drop a pin and you can link it
directly to that map. And same thing,
populate this with new pins that link
you to other places, NPCs, loot, things
of that nature. Uh, in this case, I just
want to quickly show you how I link the
kingdom of Tias here into my neighboring
realms. So, here to the south are the
pledged cities of Aman. And same thing,
we can toggle on the political
boundaries. You can see that this one is
being encroached upon by an invasion. If
you keep going even further south, you
then get access to the furthest south I
expect my players to go. So, yeah, this
is a lot better than just purely
physical maps. Now, I can't emphasize
enough just how much this one feature
changed the way we do our campaign, and
the players absolutely love World Anvil,
but that's just scratching the surface
of what's possible here. There's a ton
more tools for adding in NPCs,
locations, plots, and more. You can even
manage campaigns with integrated stat
blocks, character sheets, inventory
management, and more. It's honestly been
a dream come true. So, get started today
by clicking the link in the description
below to get 51% off any yearly
subscription to World Anvil. Check out
some tutorials, get world building, and
let me know what you've created. Enjoy.
Across the Imperium, guard regiments
come in many shapes and sizes. Each one
is a reflection of the unique character
of its home planet, whose essence has
been pressed into the mold of service
requirements set by the Astromeitarum.
For some, this means fielding elite
shock infantry. for others heavy tanks
or large caliber artillery.
Few are the planets which have the right
to field combined arms forces. The
regiments from Armageddon are one such
exception. This is due to the vaulted
service of the Steel Legions across the
broader story of their home world. Let
us now review this briefly.
The planet of Armageddon is located to
the galactic northeast of Segmentum
Solar. However, in millennia past, it
had resided elsewhere in the galaxy
under the name of Ulanor. It was here
that this world had once acted as the
throne of successive Orc Empires whose
warlords had threatened to [music] cast
the galaxy a flame.
From M30 to M32, the Imperium had been
forced to wage multiple crusades against
this threat. The most significant being
the war of the beast.
Upon its bloody conclusion, Ulanor was
to be damned [music] to Exterminatus and
cast into a star.
However, the Adeptus [music] Mechanicus
wished to claim the vital Xenos secrets
within its depths and chose instead to
secretly relocate the entire planet
using reverse engineered orc technology.
Over the following millennia, the planet
would be rediscovered and colonized by
the Imperium.
Though Ulanor bore trace scars of its
dark history, much of it had been
obscured by the passing of time and the
after effects of being teleported to an
entirely new solar system.
Yet, even in its current state, the
planet proved suitable for development
and rapidly rose to become an industrial
hub of the Imperium.
However, this period of relative
prosperity would not last long as
pollution and war overtook the planet,
earning it a new name, Armageddon.
By the 41st millennium, Armageddon's
population would be concentrated within
a series of hive cities strewn across
the main continent, which is split by an
equatorial jungle. To the north lies the
continent known as the fire wastess. It
is a hot arid region of mineral
extraction which has been stripmined far
beyond the point that it can maintain
any living ecosystem.
The southern continent known as the dead
lands is a cold ice covered equally
inhospitable region soaked with
pollution which serves as the main
source of fresh water for Armageddon's
inhabitants.
This level of environmental destruction
has left the planet in a vicious cycle
of degradation as the land, seas, and
skies are choked off by millennia of
industrial byproducts, organic decay,
and volcanic activity to the point that
an average human cannot survive outside
without specialist gear.
Such conditions would be intolerable
enough. However, over just the last
century, these lands have been ravaged
by three massive globe spanning
conflicts.
The first such war for Armageddon saw
the demon prince Angram lead an invasion
of world eataters, while the second and
third wars for Armageddon saw the orc
war boss Gazul Magurra
launch successive wars to take the
planet.
Throughout these conflicts, the Steel
Legion distinguished itself for its
staunch resolve in the face of
overwhelming odds. Often finding victory
not just by holding the line, but by
taking the fight to the enemy with bold,
aggressive counterattacks.
In these efforts, few embodied this
warrior spirit better than Sebastian
Yaric. This commasar had arisen as the
hero of Hades hive for personally
leading the defenses that held back the
green tide on multiple occasions.
Such heroics included confronting mighty
war bosses in handtohand combat leading
to the loss of an arm and later an eye.
But what he lost was replaced with
augmented bionics that only further
enhanced his ability and his drive to
take back Armageddon.
With this background in mind, let us now
see how they operate.
In terms of organization, a Steel Legion
regiment is rather flexible in nature,
at least compared to some of its more
standardized [music] Imperial peers.
This is owed to the fact that they can
field combined arms forces of infantry,
mechanized infantry, tanks, superheavy
tanks, and artillery. Such forces are
further bolstered by the addition of
support units at both the company and
regimental level meant to further
enhance the capabilities of the legion.
Yet, regardless of their specific
makeup, in overall doctrine, steel
legions tend to be mobile and
aggressive. This is made possible by
their proportionately high number of
mechanized units and the rarely seen
support of fast strike aircraft.
Acting [music] in tight coordination,
such forces are capable of punching well
above their weight class by
outmaneuvering larger or better equipped
foes.
Due to such reliance on war machines,
the Steel Legion maintains regular pacts
with the Adeptus [music] Mechanicus who
send tech priests and engineers to see
to the needs of these vehicles.
An example [music] of the composition of
an Armageddon regiment. We can review
the high-level [music] table of
organization for the 473rd
Steel Legion.
It is composed of a regimental HQ,
12 mechanized infantry companies, six
infantry companies, and five fire
support companies. In reinforcements are
added, three artillery companies, two
tank squadrons, and one company of orc
hunter skirmishers.
The entire vehicle pool is overseen by
an envoy of tech priests and servtors.
In total, this amounts to some 4,600
troops.
But the 473rd is a rather large
infantryheavy force by Armageddon
standards. The more typical Steel Legion
regimental template, usually consists of
12 companies.
Depending on their make, these might be
classified as light, regular, or heavy
variants of the infantry, mechanized,
armored, and artillery regiments.
For the sake of our video, we shall be
modeling a more balanced regiment
composed of one regimental HQ [music]
unit, two infantry companies, four
mechanized infantry companies, two fire
support companies, two tank companies,
and one artillery company.
Bolted onto it are additional support
[music] units at both the company and
regimental level.
Most notable among these are [music] the
air force units that include one vulture
squadron and one Valkyrie squadron
carrying a stormtrooper platoon.
And finally overseeing all the machines
of war will be an omniscient envoy for a
grand total of about 2,400 troops.
With this highle overview in mind, let
us now take a closer look at the
individual unit breakdowns.
We can begin with the infantry.
The typical steel legion recruit is
drawn from the large underclass
population which makes up the social
base of Armageddon's various hive
cities. In such environments, only the
strong survive the brutal environmental
conditions and savage gang wars which
plague the underhives.
Thus does natural selection precondition
recruits for life in the Steel Legion.
Basic training proves relatively short
for such guardsmen who often have a
background as veteran gang members and
urban fighters. What truly marks their
transformation is the adoption of the
Steel Legion's standard outfit.
This includes black fatigues, carropase
armor, a desert pattern trench coat,
gloves, a steel helmet, a gas mask and
rebreather along with other items meant
to improve the odds of their survival in
the harsh environments of Armageddon.
Together, individual soldiers will be
grouped into a 10-man squad led by a
[music] sergeant and seconded by a
corporal. For offense, troops will pack
M36 pattern las,
four frag grenades, and a handful of
smoke and flash grenades.
Two guardsmen of the squad carry heavier
support weapons [music] such as grenade
or missile launchers.
Corporals are usually assigned to carry
the squad's vox caster for inter team
[music] coms. Officers, meanwhile, are
often distinguished by their use of
chains and skull emlazed masks meant to
strike fear in superstitious [music]
orc foes.
Alongside the standard infantry squads
come special weapon squads composed of
five [music] specialist guardsmen led by
a sixth seasoned corporal. These are
skilled units meant to handle a variety
of roles. For instance, recon is vital
to the fastmoving [music]
tempo of the Steel Legion, and thus a
squad might feature three pairs of
snipers [music] and spotters. against
the orc charges which frequently wash
upon the Imperial lines of Armageddon.
Suppression or wave clearing weaponry is
also favored as are anti-armour
specialists wielding portable missile
launchers who can be used as scalpels to
knock out high priority targets [music]
that might otherwise contest their own
mechanized dominance.
Another foundational unit is the six-man
heavy weapons squad. It is composed of
three twoman teams with the seniormost
man, often [music] a corporal, acting as
the overall lead.
What distinguishes such heavy weapon
squads from their specialist
counterparts is that they boast even
more high-powered weapons at the cost of
reduced [music] mobility.
The exact kit is tailored to the mission
at hand.
This might include anti-infantry weapons
such as mortars, heavy bolters and autoc
cannons or anti-armour weapons such as
laz cannons and heavy missile launchers.
At the next level comes the infantry
platoon led by a lieutenant [music] and
their HQ. For our model, we shall assume
that this infantry platoon has four
standard infantry squads, five heavy
weapons teams for a total of 50 combat
troops.
At the top of their chain of command is
the platoon leader and their HQ. This
staff will typically include a flag
bearer, a Vox operator, and additional
technical experts or specialists.
When deployed, this staff will be
assigned a Chimera APC.
Not only does this [music] grant them
protection and mobility in the field,
but it also hosts important equipment
such as longrange Vox casters for
[music] communication with high command.
Mechanized infantry platoon are of the
same [music] overall composition as
their foot-based comrades with the main
difference being that now each squad has
its own Chimera APC [music]
or equivalent for transport and support.
The same duality exists for the fire
support platoon. The standard version
features 10 heavy weapons [music] teams.
These will be kitted with a range of
weapons to properly support the needs of
its parent unit.
Mechanized variants are similarly armed
[music] with the main difference being
that all troops and their heavy gear
will be loaded onto chimeas for rapid
mobilization.
At the next level, [music] several
platoon will be joined into a company of
around 200 troops led by a captain and
their HQ.
Our model will assume a moderatelysized
and balanced infantry company. It is
composed of three of our previously
defined infantry [music] platoon and one
heavy weapons platoon made up of 10
heavy weapons teams split into groups of
mortar, anti-tank, and fire support
squads.
This unit has its own platoon HQ led by
a lieutenant. [music]
Their staff will consist of at least
four NCOs. Attached to this group may be
a commasar whose role as a political
officer is to enforce morale,
discipline, [music] and loyalty to the
emperor.
The entire HQ staff will also have its
own transports [music] for men,
materials, and specialized equipment.
Once more, it should be noted that
mechanized infantry companies [music]
are a mirror image of the standard
infantry company with the main addition
being yet [music] more chimeas.
Beyond what has already been mentioned,
additional support [music] units can be
attached to a company to function as
part of their organic structure.
Typically, this practice is limited to
three such units, which may [music]
include any of the following.
A twoman sniper team, a twoman ogrin
[music] team, a fire support platoon,
an infantry platoon, a tank squadron, a
hellhound squadron, a griffin battery,
and a hydra flacc tank. In this way,
does an Armageddon company have some of
[music] the greatest tactical
flexibility of all Imperial Guard units?
This combined arms concept is further
reinforced as we now cover the vehicle
companies which exist within the same
regiments as their infantry
counterparts. To get a sense of things,
let us first begin with the types of
vehicles one might encounter among their
ranks. Starting with the light variants.
On the smallest end of the scale is the
humble motorbike. Such all-terrain
scramblers allow Steel Legion troops to
quickly traverse the ash wastess of
Armageddon.
In this capacity do they act as the eyes
and ears of the army, conducting recon
missions or even hitandrun strikes well
in advance of the main body.
Next come the Sentinels.
These bipedal allterrain walkers are
present across [music] much of the
astromeitarum as a form of light vehicle
that excels at reconnaissance or search
and destroy [music] operations.
However, the Armageddon pattern stands
out in that it is more robustly armored
against both threats from combat and the
planet's corrosive environment.
In this way do they have greater
tolerance than bikes for extended
operation in the wastelands.
The Armageddon pattern Sentinel is also
often equipped with more robust weaponry
to serve as tank hunter and bunker
busters in terrain that might otherwise
be inaccessible to the larger vehicles
typically required to fill such roles.
In combat, these light vehicles will be
formed into squadrons. For the bikes,
this typically means grouping about five
to 10 of them together into a rough
rider squad led by a sergeant.
Sentinels, meanwhile, are more commonly
grouped [music] into squadrons of three
to five vehicles with a mix of weapons
and equipment to mutually support one
another.
At the next level, bike and sentinel
squadrons can be grouped into a platoon.
These may be pure or mixed vehicle units
that will be dynamically configured to
meet the needs of the mission at hand.
For instance, a [snorts and music] scout
platoon may feature three to five Rough
Rider squads with a mobile HQ staff for
fast, lowprofile travel. A light tank
hunter platoon, meanwhile, may have just
two to three sentinel squads meant to
hunt and kill a designated target.
A recon platoon might feature a mix of
Rough Rider and Sentinel squads for more
balanced capabilities.
At the next level, it is possible to
have companies composed solely of
[music] bikes and sentinels. However,
these are extremely rare.
Instead, regiments will tend to split
out their light vehicles among the ranks
of other companies to better achieve the
desired combined arms balance.
Thus, we will now be best served to move
on to the heavier vehicles of the Steel
Legion.
Here we will begin with the Chimera
across the Imperial Guard. This is one
of the most ubiquitous armored
transports. Measuring roughly 6 m wide,
7 m long, and 4 m tall with a total
weight of 38 tons, it has enough space
to house a driver, a gunner, and 12
guardsmen in the troop compartment.
But as the name implies, the Chimera has
been endlessly adapted for a range of
other battlefield roles such as
communication, logistics, [music] and
scouting.
All of these variants can be produced
locally on Armageddon with [music] the
main difference being that these
patterns have been upgraded to meet the
higher requirements for environmental
tolerance.
Over the course of the long orc wars on
Armageddon, some manufacturers have even
taken to adapting their Chimeas to
answer specific enemy threats, such as
the Defender variant, which boasts a
long range anti-armour laser destroyer.
For more heavyhitting vehicles, we can
now turn to [music] the Steel Legion
tanks.
Once more, it [music] should be said
that these are similar to their base
Imperial models with the improved armor
and atmospheric ceiling to be expected
of the Armageddon patterns.
They also often sport improvised
mounting grips and platforms to allow
foot troops to hitch a ride to and from
combat.
First comes the Lehman Russ battle tank.
This vehicle measures 7 m long, 4.8 m
wide, and 4.4 m tall with a total weight
of 60 tons when clad in ferro steel
armor plating. Its primary weapon is a
turret-mounted battle cannon. This heavy
enlarged version of the autoc cannon
fires explosive rounds, which can
equally decimate enemy infantry and
armor.
As secondary armaments, it boasts a
forward-mounted laz cannon and
sidemounted heavy weapons, which might
[music] include heavy bolters, heavy
flamers, multi-melters, and plasma
cannons.
All of these systems are operated by a
minimum crew of four that includes a
commander, a driver, a loader, and a
main gunner.
A notable variant of the Lehman Rust
seen on Armageddon is the [music]
Executioner.
Produced by the Forge World of Riser, it
features [music] a plasma destroyer gun
on the main turret. This weapon
unleashes temperamental but extremely
powerful blasts of plasma which can melt
the most heavily armored of vehicles or
defensive [music] positions.
Pushing this destructive potential even
further is the destroyer variant of the
Leman Russ. Its main and only armament
is a laser destroyer. This powerful
weapon concentrates all its energy into
a tight beam which can blast through
armor [music] at extreme range.
Thus, it is primarily used for tank
hunter modes of operation.
With these individual vehicles
introduced, let us now assemble them
into formations.
The smallest armored unit is the
squadron, which might [music] consist of
about three to five of the same vehicle
type.
A typical tank squadron, for [music]
instance, is made up of three Leman Rust
vehicles, one of which acts as the
leader whose commander bears the rank of
lieutenant. Altogether, they are crewed
by around 12 to [music] 18 men. Such
squadrons can meet a variety of roles
based on the specific configuration of
its vehicles. For instance, strike
squadrons may be stripped down for
[music] rapid flanking maneuvers.
Assault squadrons bring demolisher
cannons to blast apart fortified
positions. And tank [music] hunter
squadrons wield destroyers for long
range anti-armour.
A typical tank company is made up of
three tank squadrons with a fourth HQ
squadron led by a captain.
Once more, it should be noted that
[music] many company variants exist,
especially among the Steel Legion, whose
doctrine benefits most from mixed
squadron formations. Often this means
adding in light bikes and sentinels
[music] for scouting or signals duties
as well as throwing in mechanized
infantry platoon [music]
aboard Chimeas to help take and hold
ground.
Added to these will be [music] the same
offering of support units available to
the infantry companies.
With the tanks covered, we [music] can
now briefly touch upon the artillery. In
keeping with Steel Legion doctrine, an
emphasis is placed on [music] the use of
self-propelled versions of the standard
Imperial Guard artillery types. This is
most commonly done by reusing the
Chimera chassis, which is already
[music] so easily mass-produced and
maintained by the manufacturers of
Armageddon.
The most basic version is the Griffin.
This light artillery [music] tank brings
to bear a heavy mortar cannon for
devastating air bursts against masses of
light infantry [music] or vehicles in
the open.
The basilisk is another conversion which
mounts an earth shaker cannon at top its
chassis.
This weapon is capable of shredding
anything [music] caught within its blast
radius up to 50 km away using
supercharged rounds. Furthermore, the
additional armor and self-contained
systems [music] on the Armageddon
pattern basilisk let it operate in a
highly autonomous manner whilst
shrugging off small arms fire and even
light vehicle rounds. Such modifications
[music]
allow the Steel Legion to wield this
basilisk far more aggressively [music]
than usual, deploying it in the thick of
the action and even lowering its gun to
[music] act as a makeshift tank on the
front lines.
Another notable Chimera conversion is
the [music] Manticor. Unlike its
traditional artillery counterparts, this
vehicle type uses [music] a rocket
launcher as its primary weapon.
Four firing positions allow for the
loading of multiple [music] missile
variants for countering any number of
ground and air targets at extreme range.
The most iconic of [music] these is the
Storm Eagle rocket, which unleashes a
cloud of bomblelets to carpet an area
with pulverizing force.
The Hydra is yet another [music] Chimera
conversion which mounts two twin linked
autoc cannons at top its hull. In this
configuration, the vehicle is primarily
[music] used as an anti-air platform.
However, its heavy caliber explosive
high rate of fire [music] rounds can
also be trained upon ground targets to
shred infantry and light [music] vehicle
formations.
Larger self-propelled artillery also
exists based on other vehicle bases.
The Bombard, for instance, uses a
reinforced [music]
Leman Russ chassis, which allows it to
bear the weight of a heavy siege mortar.
This massive weapon is among [music] the
largest and most powerful of its class,
often being reserved for use against
enemy fortifications or other static
targets.
When organized for battle, these
self-propelled artillery will typically
operate in batteries of three to five
vehicles led by a lieutenant. Within
such teams, the lead vehicle and its
crew will take on the role of the unit's
fire direction center.
Additional vehicles such as sentinels or
bikes may accompany a battery to assist
in observation and even ammunition
loading.
Next, multiple batteries come together
to form a heavy artillery company led by
a captain.
Their composition can take many forms
and often intentionally boasts a wide
array of artillery types to dynamically
counter [music] whatever obstacles a
fastmoving steel legion column might
encounter.
As always, [music] such capabilities can
be further boosted by the inclusion of
additional company level [music] support
units.
But none of this would be possible
without the use of dedicated support
[music] vehicles. After all, a rapid
advance force is worthless if it outruns
its supply of fuel and [music]
ammunition.
To this end, the Steel Legion makes
ample use of the Trojan support vehicle.
It is essentially a hollowedout Chimera
with an extra heavy lift crane [music]
that is used to efficiently transport
and offload literal tons of materials
while also assisting in other [music]
duties such as towing, resupply, and
various engineering tasks. Additional
capacity can be provided through the use
of hitched transport trailers.
Closely related to the Trojan is the
Atlas.
It is a modified version of a Leman rust
tank with an upgraded engine and crane.
These alterations allow for the recovery
and repair of damaged vehicles.
In essence, they are the medics of the
mechanized world.
Such support vehicles are everywhere
[music] in the Steel Legion, either
being bolted on to individual units for
organic support or formed up into their
own squadrons [music] and companies in
the supply column. [snorts]
Now, with all [music] these ground
forces having been covered, it will be
worth discussing the air forces of the
Steel Legion. While many options are
available, the [music] most common picks
are two vertical takeoff vehicle types,
the Valkyrie and the Vulture.
The Valkyrie is an airborne [music]
assault carrier crewed by a pilot, a
navigator, and two door gunners.
Measuring 19 [music] by 17 m and
weighing 13 tons, it nonetheless streaks
across the sky at incredible speeds
thanks to its pair of top-mounted turbo
jets.
From above, it can rain death upon the
foe with multi- lasers, Hellstrike
missiles, and rocket pods.
Close air [music] supports at low or
hovering speeds is made possible by
door-mounted heavy bolters, which can
sweep away any targets that lie below.
When the time is right, the hatch to the
Valkyy's cargo bay can be swung open to
unload a squad of up to 12 troopers who
might jump, repel, or [music] use grab
shoots to touch down in the landing
zone.
With extra fuel, Valkyries can also
deploy heavier [music] payloads of drop
sentinels, Cyclops demolition vehicles,
or sentry guns.
Specialized Valkyrie variants such as
Sky Talon or Spectre can transport even
heavier cargo and light vehicles.
The Vulture gunship is a relative of the
Valkyrie, which has traded out its
carrier features for more firepower.
Here, its pilot and weapons operator can
make use of a range of weapons packages
meant for anti-infantry, anti-armour, or
bunker buster capabilities.
Thus armed, it can operate well in
advance of a groundbased force to soften
up or disrupt the foe with deep strike
missions. Alternatively, the Vulture can
also be used for prolonged closeair
support, whilst Valkyries cycle in and
out of the combat zone.
Beyond the Valkyrie and Vulture, more
airships from the Aeronautica
Imperialists might also be present on
Armageddon.
These include various classes of
fighters, bombers, and transports, which
we shall not have time to cover today.
Whilst on missions, these aircraft may
operate independently, but are more
often grouped into flights of at least
two or more similar vehicles.
Flights are then grouped into squadrons
of about 3 to 10 vehicles. A relatively
[music] common tactical squadron, for
instance, will feature a few flights of
Valkyries for troop deployment whilst
being supported by a flight or two of
vultures. However, it should be noted
that these are rather large aerial
formations which might be found in the
context of an air force wing. Squadrons
will tend to be on the smaller end of
the scale when broken off to operate
directly alongside ground forces.
With all these separate facets of the
Astromeitarium's combined arms having
been covered, let us now finally bring
them all together into a regiment.
This is our proud Steel Legion of
Armageddon.
As a reminder, our model consists of 12
companies which include the following.
One regimental HQ company, two infantry
companies,
four mechanized infantry companies, two
fire support companies, two tank
companies, and one artillery company. To
each of these, we have bolted on
additional company level support units
which we felt best helped round off
their offensive capabilities.
At the overall regimental level, we have
also added two additional support
formations.
The options to choose from typically
include any units from the following
list. A Rough Rider platoon, a Valkyrie
Stormtrooper platoon, an artillery
battery, a Sentinel squadron, a missile
battery, a super heavy tank, a flack
battery, and a Vulture squadron.
From this list, we have chosen for our
model regiment to use one of the
Valkyrie and one of the Vulture units.
In addition, we have also included an
omniscient envoy with roughly 50 tech
priests and engineers to tend to the
mechanized elements of the force.
Altogether, it is an impressive
formation which boasts over 2,400 troops
and a huge vehicle pool of some 50 light
vehicles, 60 heavy vehicles, and [music]
eight aircraft.
This stands in stark contrast to most
other guard regiments who can only match
this sort of firepower when they roll
out their armored formations.
Even then, such peers may still find
themselves outgunned on [music] account
of all the integrated support weapons
available to the Steel Legion, such as
the strength of combined arms.
And so the men and women of the Steel
Legion stand ready to defend their homes
once more with the dawning of a fourth
war for Armageddon.
Join us next time as we continue this
journey through the true size of the
Imperial Guard regiments. What topics
should we cover next?
A big thanks to our fans on Patreon
[music] and YouTube memberships for
supporting the channel and to the
researchers, writers, and artists for
making this episode possible. We
couldn't have done it without this team
and this community. If you liked this
[music] episode, be sure to like and
subscribe for more content and check out
these other related videos. See you in
the next one.